Around the world in 80 days, by Jules Verne, chapter 1.
It is London in 1872.
And this is Mr. Phileus Fogg's house.
Mr. Phileus Fogg is an English gentleman.
He lives in London.
He hasn't got a wife or children.
But he has got a French servant, Paspartou.
Phogg goes to his club every day.
He eats at his club at 12 o'clock.
In the afternoon he reads there.
In the evening he eats there again.
Then he talks with his friends.
And at midnight he goes home.
Paspartou is happy.
He wants a quiet job.
But one evening Phogg sees something interesting in the times.
Gentlemen thief takes 5,000 pounds from the Bank of England.
At the club Phogg's friends talk.
That gentleman thief can't go far.
Says Ralph.
With trains and ships, today's detectives move fast.
But thieves can move fast too, Flanagan says.
Today you can go round the world in 80 days.
Says Phogg.
Do it and I pay you 20,000 pounds.
Says Stewart.
I'm leaving tonight.
Then answers Phogg.
Perhaps I can't do it, Stewart.
But then I pay you 20,000 pounds.
The train for France leaves before 9 in the evening.
Phogg must be back in London by the 21st of December.
Phogg gives 20,000 pounds in a bag to his servant.
We're leaving for France, he says.
Paspartou isn't very happy.
They go to France.
Then they take a train to Italy and a ship to Portside in Egypt.
When their ship arrives in Suez, an English detective, Mr. Fix, is waiting.
He's looking for the gentleman thief.
Phogg visits the passport office.
Mr. Fix sees him there.
It's the gentleman thief, he thinks.
I must tell London.
Chapter Two.
Fix looks at Paspartou.
Where are you going?
He asks.
Around the world says Paspartou.
But right now I need some new shirts.
Fix takes him to a shop and leaves him there.
Then he sends a telegram to London.
The gentleman thief is going to Bombay.
Stop. Fix.
Later he gets on the ship for Bombay with Phogg and Paspartou.
It is the 20th of October.
They all arrive in Bombay, two days early.
At 4.30 in the afternoon, Phogg and Paspartou leave the ship.
They want to get a train across India to Calcutta.
It leaves at 8 o'clock.
First Phogg goes to the passport office.
Then he eats at the station.
Paspartou visits the temple at Malibar Hill.
But he doesn't take off his shoes.
The priests get angry.
They take his shoes and Paspartou runs away.
Phogg and Paspartou get on the train.
But Fix stays in Bombay.
He is waiting for a telegram from London.
After three days, the train stops.
The railway from Colby to Alalabad isn't ready.
Some men are building the railway.
But there are 80 kilometres without a railway between Colby and Alalabad.
In Colby, Paspartou gets some new shoes.
He also finds an elephant to take them to Alalabad.
They stop near a temple in the village of Pelaji.
The old Indian prince is dead.
His young wife, the princess, must die with him in a big fire.
We must help that woman, says Phogg.
The priests start the fire.
Through the smoke, Phogg sees something beautiful.
The prince stands up and takes the princess out of the fire.
The prince and the princess come nearer.
Phogg sees that the man is not the prince.
It is Paspartou in the prince's clothes.
Quickly, let's go, says Paspartou to Phogg quietly.
Suddenly, the priests see the prince's body on the fire.
They see that the man in the prince's clothes is not the prince and they become angry.
Phogg, Paspartou and the princess leave very quickly on the elephant.
Chapter 3
At last, they arrive in Alalabad.
Phogg buys some European clothes for the princess.
What a beautiful woman, he thinks.
On the train going to Calcutta, she speaks for the first time.
My name's Mrs. Aouda.
Thank you for helping me.
But I don't know what to do now.
I can never go home.
We can take you to Hong Kong, Phogg says.
Thank you, says Mrs. Aouda.
I have a cousin there.
At Calcutta station, a policeman stops them.
He takes them to see a judge.
Mrs. Aouda goes to.
Fix is in Calcutta.
Detectives must move fast to find gentleman thieves.
He's waiting in court.
But Phogg and his friends don't see him.
Why are we here?
For breaking the rules in a temple, says the judge.
In pillage, asks Phogg.
No, in Bombay, says the judge.
And he puts Paspatu's shoes on the table.
You must go to prison for this, says the judge.
But Phogg gives £2,000 to the court, and they're free again.
They get onto the ship for Hong Kong.
Fix follows them.
But Paspatu sees him.
Perhaps he's a detective, he thinks.
Perhaps he's working for Mr. Stewart from the gentleman's club in London.
In Hong Kong, Mrs. Aouda learns that her cousin now lives in Holland.
Come with us to Europe, says.
Paspatu wants to buy three tickets on the Carnatic.
It leaves for Yokohama in Japan the next morning.
But at the ticket office, he learns that it's leaving early that evening.
Paspatu meets Fix near the ticket office.
Come for a drink, says Fix.
Fix tells Paspatu,
I think your Mr. Phogg is a gentleman thief, and I want to arrest him.
Paspatu doesn't want to help Fix, but the detective buys drink after drink.
Paspatu goes to sleep on the table.
Now he can't tell Phogg about the Carnatic.
Things fix. It leaves tonight, but without Phogg.
Chapter 4
Later, Paspatu wakes up.
He goes onto the Carnatic, and the ship leaves.
But Phogg and Mrs. Aouda aren't with him.
Next morning, Phogg and Mrs. Aouda go to get on the Carnatic, but it isn't there.
Fix arrives.
The Carnatics on its way to Japan, he says.
And the next ship to Yokohama leaves next week.
Where's Paspatu?
asks Mrs. Aouda.
I don't know, says Phogg, but we must go on without him.
We must find another ship.
Phogg finds a small ship, the Tanka Deer, to go to Shanghai.
There, they can get a big ship to Yokohama.
Can I go with you?
asks Fix.
Of course, Phogg answers.
The Tanka Deer travels through storms.
And at last, arrives near Shanghai.
Suddenly, they see a big ship in front of them.
It's on its way to Yokohama.
Signal to that ship, says Phogg.
Pass Paspatu arrives in Yokohama, but he has no money.
He leaves the Carnatic and finds work in Mr. Batulka's Circus.
I can go to America with the Circus, he thinks.
Phogg, Mrs. Aouda and Fix, get on the big ship.
And a week later, they arrive in Japan.
The Carnatic is in Yokohama.
Phogg and Mrs. Aouda go on to the Carnatic.
They find Pass Paspatu's name in the book of passengers' names,
but they can't find Pass Paspatu.
Their ship leaves for San Francisco in a few hours.
Before they leave, Phogg goes to the Circus.
Pass Paspatu sees him there.
Mr. Phogg!
He says happily.
Phogg wants to take Pass Paspatu with him.
But first, he must pay Mr. Batulka.
At six o'clock in the evening,
Phogg, Pass Paspatu and Mrs. Aouda go on to the American ship.
Fix follows them.
Chapter 5
I'm sorry about Hong Kong, says Pass Paspatu.
I don't usually drink much, but...
Later, Pass Paspatu sees Fix on the ship.
My master isn't a gentleman thief, he says.
Listen, says Fix.
I now have papers from London to arrest Mr. Phogg.
But I can't stop him now.
It must be in England.
When we get there...
They arrive in San Francisco in the morning.
The New York train leaves that evening.
Phogg and Mrs. Aouda meet Fix in the street.
I am travelling to Europe now.
Can we travel together?
He asks.
Of course, answers Phogg.
They walk into a meeting.
Camera feel for Judge!
Shout the people on the left.
Mandy boy for Judge!
Shout the people on the right.
Then they start fighting.
One man wants to fight Phogg, but Fix stands in front of him and stops him.
Pass Paspatu finds it all very strange.
So, Mr. Fix is helping us now, he thinks?
Phogg, Mrs. Aouda, Pass Paspatu and Fix get on the train that evening.
They cross one old bridge very fast and it falls into the river behind them.
Then, some Sioux Indians arrive.
They kill some passengers.
Pass Paspatu fights them.
But they take him and ride away with him.
Phogg, Mrs. Aouda and Fix get off the train.
Phogg goes to look for Pass Paspatu.
He finds him and brings him back.
But they must wait until evening, until the next train to New York.
How can we travel fast over the snow?
Things fix.
On a slange with sails.
Soon, they arrive in Omaha.
There, they take a train to New York.
They arrive in New York 45 minutes late.
Their ship, the China, is on its way to Liverpool.
Chapter 6
The next morning, Phogg, Mrs. Aouda, Pass Paspatu and Fix leave on a small ship, the Henrietta, going to France.
Later, Phogg gives the sailors money and they agree to go to Liverpool, not to France.
The sailors lock the captain in his room.
The Henrietta is in the middle of the Atlantic and there's no coal.
Burn all the wood on the ship, says Phogg.
The ship arrives in Queenstown, in the south of Ireland, and there's no more wood on it.
Let's get off here, says Phogg to Mrs. Aouda, Pass Paspatu and Fix.
Fix doesn't arrest Phogg in Queenstown.
He's waiting for them to arrive in England.
They get on a train and travel to Dublin.
There, they get a fast ship to Liverpool.
In Liverpool, Fix arrests Phogg at last and takes him to prison.
In prison, Phogg looks at his diary.
At two o'clock he looks at his watch.
There's time to go to London on a fast train and to be at my club by 845 this evening.
He thinks.
At half past three, Fix arrives with Mrs. Aouda and Pass Paspatu.
I'm sorry, Mr. Phogg, says Fix.
The gentleman thief, James Strand, is in prison.
You're free to go.
Angrily, Phogg punches Fix in the face.
Then Phogg, Mrs. Aouda and Pass Paspatu run to Liverpool station.
They get a fast train to London.
The train arrives at ten minutes to nine.
Phogg is five minutes late for his meeting with Stuart.
Phogg doesn't want to get to his club late, so he goes home with Mrs. Aouda and Pass Paspatu.
Around the world in eighty days and five minutes, he's the loser.
He has only twenty thousand pounds in the bank and he must give it all to Stuart.
I'm sorry for bringing you here to a poor man's home.
He says to Mrs. Aouda the next morning.
Will you marry me?
asks Mrs. Aouda.
Yes, says Phogg.
That afternoon, Phogg tells Pass Paspatu.
I want to marry Mrs. Aouda tomorrow, the twenty-third of December.
Can you speak to the people at Marleben Church about it?
Soon, Pass Paspatu returns.
Today's the twenty-first of December.
When you travel east around the world, you get an extra day.
You aren't late for your meeting at the club after all, but you must run.
At a quarter to nine, Phogg enters his club.
I win, he says to Stuart, wears by twenty thousand pounds.
Next Monday, Phogg, the world traveler, marries Mrs. Aouda.
He's a very happy man.